For this first exercise of chapter 12,
we're going to count the
letters in a list, assuming that we have a
list of words.
Now it'd be very easy to count the list of
words you simply use the lend function on
the list.
But counting the letters takes a little
more work, so we're
gonna look at how to write a recursive
function to do that.
So let's get started.
We're gonna call this program chap12x1.py.
We're gonna call our function count
letters, and the
parameter will be a list, which we'll call
words.
The first thing we do is we test the base
case, and if the length of
our list is less than one, then we
return zero because there are no letters
to count.
Otherwise, we return the length of the
first word
in the list plus, and then a recursive
call to the function, and then
we take a slice of the list starting at
the second
word, or word sub one, and we write that
slice, one colon.
So that will get all but the first word.
That way, we will slowly work down the
list, until our if statement becomes true.
So we can test this function with a little
program here.
We'll have a four word list.
Then we'll print the list, and so we can
count the letters easily.
And then we'll call the function with the
list, and here we'll see what we get.
So, we'll save it.
Open our command prompt window, run the
program.
And we see that there are 12 letters, one,
two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine, ten, 11, 12.
So
let's add a few words to that.
We'll add for all good people, say the
program again.
Run it again.
And this time we get 28.
So we know that there's 12 through time,
13,1,4,15,16,17,18,19,
20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28.
So, this was a recursive implementation of
this problem.
Of course, we could have written an
iterative solution also, but it's
always nice to at least try the recursive
solution to see if
it's easier to write, if it's more
intuitive, because a lot of
times problems will lend themselves to
a recursive solution versus an iterative
solution.
In this case I'd say either one would have
been fine, but
it's certainly not that difficult to find
the recursive solution to this problem.
And that wraps up this first exercise and
we're ready to move on to exercise two.